# Overview

Learn how to build a custom DELETE request.

# Lesson Video

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YXVAI-QVJUQ

---

## Handling DELETE Requests in Express.js

In web development, handling DELETE requests is an essential part of building RESTful APIs and maintaining data integrity. Express.js, a popular Node.js framework, provides a straightforward way to implement DELETE functionality for your web applications. In this article, we'll explore how to create a basic DELETE request using Express.js.

### The Code

In the code snippet below, we have an Express.js application that manages a list of movies. The application uses a RESTful API structure to interact with these movies. Here's how we handle the DELETE request for a movie:

```jsx
const express = require('express');
const app = express();
const { v4: uuidv4 } = require('uuid');

// Fake Data
const movies = [
    { title: 'Die Hard', genre: 'Action', _id: uuidv4() },
    { title: 'Star Wars IV', genre: 'Fantasy', _id: uuidv4() },
    { title: 'The Lion King', genre: 'Fantasy', _id: uuidv4() },
    { title: 'Friday the 13th', genre: 'Horror', _id: uuidv4() }
];

app.delete('/movies/:movieId', (req, res, next) => {
    const movieId = req.params.movieId;
    const movieIndex = movies.findIndex(movie => movie._id === movieId);
    movies.splice(movieIndex, 1);
    res.send('Successfully deleted movie!');
});

app.listen(9000, () => {
    console.log('The server is running on Port 9000');
});

```

### Explanation

In this code, we've set up an Express.js server that manages a list of movies. The DELETE request is used to remove a movie from the list. Here's a breakdown of the key parts of the code:

1. We define a route for handling DELETE requests using `app.delete('/movies/:movieId', ...)`. The `:movieId` part is a URL parameter that allows us to specify which movie to delete based on its unique identifier.
2. Inside the route handler function, we extract the `movieId` from the URL parameters using `req.params.movieId`.
3. We search for the index of the movie to delete in the `movies` array using the `findIndex` method.
4. If the movie is found, we use the `splice` method to remove it from the `movies` array, and we respond with a "Successfully deleted movie!" message.

### Conclusion

Handling DELETE requests in Express.js is a fundamental skill for building web applications and APIs. With the provided example, you can create endpoints to delete specific resources based on their unique identifiers. As you continue to explore Express.js and RESTful API development, this knowledge will be valuable in managing and manipulating your data effectively.