# Overview

Setup and install Morgan to help with Network Errors.

# Lesson Video

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=or6ZpWw-MfI

# Understanding Morgan Middleware in Express.js

## Introduction

[Morgan](https://www.npmjs.com/package/morgan) is a powerful middleware for Node.js commonly used in backend web development with Express.js. It enhances the logging and debugging capabilities of web applications. Morgan helps developers monitor and troubleshoot their applications by providing detailed information about incoming HTTP requests and server responses.

## Using Morgan in Backend Development

Morgan is typically integrated into the middleware stack of an Express.js application to log HTTP request and response information. Here's how it is used:

1. **Logging HTTP Requests:** Morgan logs crucial information about incoming HTTP requests, such as the HTTP method, URL, status code, and response time. This feature is invaluable for debugging and monitoring application behavior.
2. **Customizable Logging Format:** Morgan offers flexibility in defining the logging format. You can configure it to log data in a format that aligns with your requirements, whether it's human-readable, JSON, or another preferred format.
3. **Logging Levels:** Morgan provides various logging levels, enabling you to categorize and filter the information you want to log. Common levels include 'dev', 'tiny', 'common', and 'combined'.

## Understanding the 'dev' Logging Level

The 'dev' logging level is particularly useful during the development phase of an application. It offers a concise and development-friendly format for request logs. When using `morgan('dev')`, the following information is logged for each request:

- **HTTP Method:** The HTTP method used in the request, e.g., GET, POST, PUT, DELETE.
- **URL Path:** The URL path of the incoming request, indicating the endpoint being accessed.
- **HTTP Status Code:** The HTTP status code returned by the server, signifying the result of the request (e.g., 200 for success).
- **Response Time:** The response time in milliseconds, providing insight into the server's performance.

## Example 'dev' Format Log Entry

Here's an example of what a log entry might look like when using the 'dev' format:

```
GET /api/products 200 15.652 ms

```

In this log entry:

- "GET" is the HTTP method.
- "/api/products" is the URL path.
- "200" is the HTTP status code (indicating success).
- "15.652 ms" is the response time in milliseconds.

This format helps developers quickly identify and address potential issues or performance bottlenecks during the development phase of their application.

Morgan is a valuable tool for backend developers, offering a clear and efficient way to log and monitor HTTP requests and responses in Express.js applications. By customizing the logging format and level, developers can adapt Morgan to their specific needs, improving the debugging and monitoring capabilities of their applications.