### Learning Objectives

- A student will be able to create a login route in there server.
- A student will be able to test their route using postman.

# Lesson

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Eww-s_h_0eE&list=PL1whVIy6oz7NIpURZoywfBtGH0dN_GafK&index=8

---

# Code Explanation: User Login

## Overview

This code is responsible for handling user login functionality in a server-side JavaScript application. It listens for an HTTP POST request to the '/login' endpoint, checks if the provided username exists in the database, verifies the password, and if the user credentials are correct, it generates a JSON Web Token (JWT) and sends it along with the user data as a response. Additionally, it provides error handling for different scenarios.

## Code

```jsx
authRouter.post('/login', (req, res, next) => {
  // Code for handling the POST request to '/login' goes here
})

```

## User Lookup

```jsx
User.findOne({ username: req.body.username.toLowerCase() }, (err, user) => {
  // Code for looking up a user goes here
})

```

- This part explains how the code searches for a user based on the provided username in the request body.
- The `User` model is used for the database query, ensuring a case-insensitive search with `.toLowerCase()`.

## Error Handling for User Lookup

```jsx
if (err) {
  res.status(500);
  return next(err);
}

```

- In this section, the code handles errors that may occur during the user lookup process.
- It sets the HTTP response status to 500 (Internal Server Error) and passes the error to the next middleware using `next(err)`.

## User Existence Check

```jsx
if (!user) {
  res.status(403);
  return next(new Error('Incorrect Username or Password'));
}

```

- Here, the code checks if a user with the provided username exists in the database.
- If no user is found, it sets the HTTP response status to 403 (Forbidden) and sends an error response with the message "Incorrect Username or Password." An error is also passed to the next middleware.

## Password Verification

```jsx
if (req.body.password !== user.password) {
  res.status(403);
  return next(new Error('Username or Password are incorrect'));
}

```

- This section verifies the provided password against the stored password for the user.
- If the passwords don't match, it sets the HTTP response status to 403 and sends an error response with the message "Username or Password are incorrect."

## Token Generation

```jsx
const token = jwt.sign(user.toObject(), process.env.SECRET);

```

- After verifying the user's credentials, a JSON Web Token (JWT) is generated. It encodes the user's information and uses a secret key stored in the environment variable (`process.env.SECRET`).

## Response to Client

```jsx
return res.status(200).send({ token, user: user.toObject() });

```

- If the user credentials are correct, a response with a status code of 200 (OK) is sent to the client.
- The response includes the generated JWT and the user data in the response body.