
# Overview

Learn about the Request Body Object and how to create your first Post Request.

# Lesson Video

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=q-81qgJgfE8

---

# Handling POST Requests in Express

In this section, we'll dive into a piece of code that demonstrates how to handle POST requests in an Express.js application. The code allows you to add new movie data to the server's database.

### Setting Up the Server

To begin, we create an Express application and set up a basic server. Here's the relevant code:

```jsx
const express = require('express');
const app = express();

// Fake Data
const movies = [
    { title: 'die hard', genre: 'action' },
    { title: 'star wars IV', genre: 'fantasy' },
    { title: 'lion king', genre: 'fantasy' },
    { title: 'friday the 13th', genre: 'horror' }
];

```

We have created a list of fake movie data in the `movies` array.

### Handling POST Requests

Now, let's focus on handling POST requests:

```jsx
app.post('/movies', (req, res) => {
    const newMovie = req.body;
    movies.push(newMovie);
    res.send(`Successfully added "${newMovie.title}" to the database`);
});

```

- `app.post('/movies', (req, res) => { ... });`: This code sets up a route using the `app.post` method. It specifies that when a POST request is made to the `/movies` endpoint, a callback function should be executed. The callback function takes two parameters: `req` (request) and `res` (response).
    - `const newMovie = req.body;`: In a POST request, the data sent by the client is typically included in the request body. This line attempts to extract the new movie data from the request body and stores it in the `newMovie` variable.
    - `movies.push(newMovie);`: This line adds the new movie object to the `movies` array. It's essentially updating the database with the new movie.
    - `res.send(`Successfully added "${newMovie.title}" to the database`);`: After the new movie is added to the array, this line sends a response to the client, indicating that the addition was successful and mentioning the title of the movie that was added.

### Starting the Server

The code also includes the following to start the server:

```jsx
app.listen(9000, () => {
    console.log('The server is running on Port 9000');
});

```

In summary, this code handles POST requests to add new movie data to the server's database. It is a basic example of how you can update your server's data through POST requests.

---

# Next Up

[We Need ID's](https://www.notion.so/We-Need-ID-s-a9c82ba30d3e44aea42c045f7d4a9d69?pvs=21)