### Learning Objectives

- A student will be able to create a reference to the user in the todo model.
- A student will be able to create a post request for their todo’s that records who created the post.
- A student will be able to test the route using postman.

---

## Important Note: Use `req.auth._id`

### The lesson uses req.user._id to access the ID, which will cause an error.
Instead, use req.auth._id

# Lesson

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=b4TQZTDsPqw&list=PL1whVIy6oz7NIpURZoywfBtGH0dN_GafK&index=10

---

## Building a RESTful API with Node.js, Express, and MongoDB

### Defining the Post Model

In this code snippet, a "Post" model is defined using Mongoose and a schema. The schema describes the structure of a "Post" object, which includes fields for the title, description, datePosted, and a reference to a "User." This reference establishes a one-to-many relationship between users and their posts.

```jsx
const mongoose = require('mongoose');
const Schema = mongoose.Schema;

const postSchema = new Schema({
    title: {
        type: String,
        required: true
    },
    description: {
        type: String,
        required: true
    },
    datePosted: {
        type: Date,
        default: Date.now
    },
    user: {
        type: Schema.Types.ObjectId,
        ref: "User",
        required: true
    }
});

module.exports = mongoose.model("Post", postSchema);

```

### Creating a New Post

The following code is a route handler for creating a new post. When a POST request is made to this route, it identifies the authenticated user using `req.auth._id`. This ID is made available through an authentication middleware, likely Express-JWT, which extracts user information from a JWT token included in the request's headers. The new post is created and associated with the user, and then saved to the database.

```jsx
postRouter.post('/', (req, res, next) => {
    req.body.user = req.auth._id;
    const newPost = new post(req.body);

    newPost.save((err, savedPost) => {
        if (err) {
            res.status(500);
            return next(err);
        }
        return res.status(201).send(savedPost);
    });
});

```

### Using Express-JWT Middleware

To secure routes and access authenticated user information, Express middleware, such as `expressjwt`, is employed. It verifies JSON Web Tokens (JWT) for authentication, with the secret key defined in `process.env.SECRET`. The authenticated user's data, including their `_id`, is stored in the `req.auth` object and is accessible throughout the route handlers in the protected routes, including '/main' and its sub-routes.

```jsx
app.use('/main', expressjwt({ secret: process.env.SECRET, algorithms: ['HS256'] }));
app.use('/main/posts', require('./routes/postRouter.js'));

```

---

#