### Learning Objectives

- A student will create an instance of axios to carry the user’s token
- A student will be able to make a get request to get the todo’s.
- A student will create a post request to add new todo’s to the database.

# Lesson

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FYeTSp1gHTo&list=PL1whVIy6oz7NIpURZoywfBtGH0dN_GafK&index=17

## **Code Explanation:**

```jsx
const userAxios = axios.create()

```

In the code snippet, a new Axios instance is created and assigned to the variable `userAxios`. This allows us to customize the behavior of Axios for specific use cases, such as handling user authentication.

```jsx
userAxios.interceptors.request.use(config => {
    const token = localStorage.getItem('token')
    config.headers.Authorization = `Bearer ${token}`
    return config
})

```

The `userAxios.interceptors.request.use` method is used to attach an interceptor to the Axios instance. Interceptors are functions that can be executed before an HTTP request is sent or after a response is received. In this case, we are using a request interceptor.

1. When a request is made using `userAxios`, the interceptor function is executed.
2. It retrieves an authentication token from the local storage. The `localStorage.getItem('token')` method is used to access a token that is presumably stored when the user logs in.
3. The token is added to the request headers. The `config.headers.Authorization` property is set to include the token using the Bearer Token authentication format.
4. Finally, the modified `config` object is returned, allowing the request to proceed with the added authentication token.

**Use Case:**

This code is commonly used in web applications where user authentication is required. By adding an authentication token to the request headers automatically, it ensures that authenticated users can access protected resources without the need to manually add the token to every request.

**References:**

- [Axios Documentation](https://axios-http.com/docs/intro)
- [MDN Web Docs - Window.localStorage](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Window/localStorage)